---
layout: post
title: Virtual Private Cloud (VPC)
---

### Networking basics

#### Networks

A *computer network* is two or more client machines that are connected together to share resources. It can be logically partitioned into subnets. 
Networking requires a networking device, such as a *router* (between subnets) or *switch* (between machines), to connect all the clients together and enable communication between them.

Each client machine in a network has a unique *Internet Protocol* (IP) address that identifies it.
For instance, network & broadcast address, internal communication, DNS resolution, future use...

A public *IPv4* (32 bits) address is either, *manually* assigned through an *Elastic IP* address associated with AWS, or *automatically* assigned through the public IP address settings i.e. at subnet level.
*Elatic network interface* is a virtual network interface that you can attach or detach from an instance in a VPC.

A *route table* contains a set of rules or outes that you can configure to direct traffic from your subnet.
Each route specifies a destination and a target. It contains a local route for communication within the VPC and each subnet must be associated with a route table.
A *Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR)* adress is expressed as an IP address and is the first address of the network. It is the destination block where you want traffic from your subnet to go.

#### Open Systems Interconnection (OSI) model

The *OSI (Open Systems Interconnection)* model is a framework for understanding how communication occurs between different devices on a network. It is composed of seven layers, each with a specific function:

    Physical Layer - deals with the physical connections between devices.
    Data Link Layer - deals with how data is transmitted over a physical connection.
    Network Layer - deals with routing and addressing of data packets.
    Transport Layer - deals with reliable data transmission.
    Session Layer - deals with establishing, maintaining, and terminating connections between devices.
    Presentation Layer - deals with the formatting and encryption of data.
    Application Layer - deals with the interfaces that allow user devices to communicate with the network.

Each layer communicates with the layer above and below it, and the protocols used at each layer are different. The OSI model is a useful way to understand how different components of a network work together to facilitate communication.

Key points:
- A VPC is a logically isolated section of the AWS Cloud.
- A VPC belongs to one Region and requires a CIDR block.
- A VPC is subdivided into subnets.
- A subnet belongs to one Availability Zone and requires a CIDR block.
- Route tables control traffic for a subnet.
- Route tables have a built-in local route.
- You add additional routes to the table.
- The local route cannot be deleted.

### VPC Networking

An *internet gateway* (passerelle) is a scalable, redundant, and highly available VPC component that allows communication between instances in your VPC and the internet. An internet gateway aim to provide a target in your VPC route tables for internet-routable traffic but also to perform network address translation for instances that were assigned public IPv4 addresses.

A *Network Address Translation* (NAT) gateway enables instances in a private subnet to connect to the internet or other AWS services, but prevents the internet from initiating a connection with those instances.

*VPC sharing* enables customers to share subnets with other AWS accounts in the same organization in AWS Organizations. VPC sharing enables multiple AWS accounts to create their application resources such as Amazon EC2 instances.

A *VPC peering connection* is a networking connection between two VPCs that enables you to route traffic between them privately.

AWS Site-to-Site VPN => AWS Direct Connect => VPC endpoints

A *VPC endpoit* is a virtual device that enable you to privately connect to Amazon regional services & share subnets with other AWS accounts.

AWS *transit gateway* is a network transit hub that you use to interconnect your VPCs and on-premises network.

• There are several VPC networking options, which include:
• Internet gateway: Connects your VPC to the internet
• NAT gateway: Enables instances in a private subnet to connect to the internet
• VPC endpoint: Connects your VPC to supported AWS services
• VPC peering: Connects your VPC to other VPCs
• VPC sharing: Allows multiple AWS accounts to create their application resources into shared, centrally-managed Amazon VPCs
• AWS Site-to-Site VPN: Connects your VPC to remote networks
• AWS Direct Connect: Connects your VPC to a remote network by using a dedicated network connection
• AWS Transit Gateway: A hub-and-spoke connection alternative to VPC peering
• You can use the VPC Wizard to implement your design.

### VPC Security


*Security groups* (virtual firewalls) have separate inbound and outbound rules, and each rule can either allow or deny traffic.
*They are stateful and act at the instance level*.

A *Network Access Control List (ACL)* is an optional layer of security for your Amazon VPC. It alsoacts as a firewall for controlling traffic in and out of one or more subnets. *It is stateless and acts at the subnet level*. To add another layer of security to your VPC, you can set up network ACLs with rules that are similar to your security groups. Each subnet in your VPC must be associated with a network ACL.

#### Amazon Route 53

*DNS (Domain Name System)* is the process of translating an internal name to the corresponding IP address.

*Amazon Route 53* is a highly available and scalable cloud DNS web service that translates domain names into numeric IP addresses. It supports several types of routing policies. Multi-Region deployment improves your application’s performance for a global audience. That is why you can use Amazon Route 53 failover (basculement) to improve the availability of your applications.

#### AWS CloudFront in order to improve performances depending on the location of the user

A *CDN (Content Delivery Network)* is a globally distributed system of caching servers that accelerates delivery of content.

*Amazon CloudFront* is a fast CDN service that securely delivers data, videos, applications, and APIs over a global infrastructure with low latency and high transfer speeds.
When a customer makes a demand, CloudFront answers with the IP address of the *edge location* closest to the customer. CloudFront obtains the data and copies it to the *edge location*. It offers many benefits: fast and global, security at the edge, highly programmable, deeply integrated with AWS, cost-effective...

Amazon CloudFront infrastructure:
- Edge locations: Network of data centers that CloudFront uses to serve popular content quickly to customers.
- Regional edge cache: CloudFront location that caches content that is not popular enough to stay at an edge location. It is located between the origin server and the global edge location. 
